README.md, before:

# Nvidia Shield Bluetooth Remote Fix

## 🎯 Problem

Your TiVo remote (or other Bluetooth HID remotes) disconnects frequently from your Nvidia Shield TV, requiring constant re-pairing. The remote works fine initially but loses connection after the Shield sleeps or randomly during use.

## 🔍 Root Cause

The Shield's `location_mode` setting is disabled (set to `0`) at the system level, even though the UI may show location services as enabled. This configuration mismatch cripples Bluetooth LE scanning, causing remote disconnections.

**Why This Happens:**
- Android requires location services to be enabled for Bluetooth LE scanning (privacy requirement)
- When `location_mode=0`, BLE scanning becomes OPPORTUNISTIC (passive only)
- The Shield misses HID device "keep-alive" packets
- Result: Remote disconnects after sleep or randomly

## ✅ Solution

Enable location services at the system level using ADB commands, then re-pair your remote.

---

## 🚀 Quick Fix (Automated)

### Prerequisites

1. **Enable Developer Options on Shield:**
   - Settings → Device Preferences → About
   - Click "Build" 7 times until you see "You are now a developer"

2. **Enable Network Debugging:**
   - Settings → Device Preferences → Developer Options
   - Scroll down to "Network debugging"
   - Turn it ON

3. **Install ADB on your computer:**
   - **Windows:** Download [Platform Tools](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/platform-tools)
   - **Mac:** `brew install android-platform-tools`
   - **Linux:** `sudo apt install adb` or `sudo yum install android-tools`

4. **Find your Shield's IP address:**
   - Settings → Device Preferences → About → Status → IP address
   - Example: `192.168.2.12`

### Run the Automated Fix

1. Download `Shield_Bluetooth_Fix.bat` (Windows) or `Shield_Bluetooth_Fix.sh` (Mac/Linux)
2. Double-click to run it
3. Enter your Shield's IP address when prompted
4. Review diagnostic results
5. Type `Y` to apply fixes
6. Type `Y` to reboot
7. After reboot: **Re-pair your remote** (see below)

The script will:
- ✅ Check all Bluetooth-related settings
- ✅ Identify issues automatically
- ✅ Fix `location_mode` and related settings
- ✅ Generate a detailed diagnostic report
- ✅ Reboot the Shield

---

## 🔧 Manual Fix (Step-by-Step)

If you prefer to fix it manually or want to understand what's happening:

### Step 1: Connect via ADB

```bash
# Connect to your Shield (replace with your IP)
adb connect 192.168.2.12:5555
```

### Step 2: Check Current Settings

```bash
# Check location mode (should return 0 if broken)
adb shell settings get secure location_mode

# Check location providers
adb shell settings get secure location_providers_allowed

# Check BLE scan status
adb shell settings get global ble_scan_always_enabled
```

**Problem indicators:**
- `location_mode` returns `0` (disabled) ❌
- `location_providers_allowed` is empty or returns `null`

### Step 3: Apply the Fix

```bash
# Enable location services (HIGH ACCURACY mode)
adb shell settings put secure location_mode 3

# Enable location providers
adb shell settings put secure location_providers_allowed +network,+gps

# Ensure BLE scanning is enabled
adb shell settings put global ble_scan_always_enabled 1
```

### Step 4: Verify the Fix

```bash
# Should now return 3
adb shell settings get secure location_mode

# Should show network and gps
adb shell settings get secure location_providers_allowed
```

### Step 5: Reboot the Shield

**CRITICAL:** The Shield must reboot for the Bluetooth stack to pick up the new settings.

```bash
adb reboot
```

Or manually: Settings → Device Preferences → About → Restart

---

## 🔄 Re-Pair Your Remote (REQUIRED)

After rebooting, you **must** re-pair your remote with a fresh connection:

1. **Navigate to:** Settings → Remotes & Accessories
2. **Find your remote** (may show as "TiVo Remote", "Bluetooth HID", or the device name)
3. **Select it** and choose **Forget** or **Unpair**
4. **Put remote in pairing mode:**
   - TiVo Remote: Hold `Home` + `Back` buttons until LED flashes
   - Other remotes: Consult your remote's manual
5. **On Shield:** Select **Add accessory**
6. **Select your remote** when it appears
7. **Complete pairing**

---

## 🎛️ Optional UI Tweaks for Better Stability

While the ADB fix addresses the root cause, these optional UI changes may improve stability:

### 1. Processor Mode (Recommended)

**Path:** Settings → Device Preferences → System → Processor mode

**Change to:** `Optimized`

**Why:** Max Performance mode can cause aggressive power management conflicts with Bluetooth scanning.

---

### 2. USB Mode (Optional)

**Path:** Settings → Device Preferences → Developer options → USB mode

**Change to:** `Auto (Recommended)`

**Why:** Compatibility mode may affect power distribution to Bluetooth radio.

---

### 3. USB Port Power (Optional)

**Path:** Settings → Device Preferences → System → USB Port Power

**Change both ports to:** `Off During Sleep`

**Why:** Reduces power draw during sleep, which may affect Bluetooth radio behavior.

---

### 4. Bluetooth LE Privacy (Optional)

**Path:** Settings → Security & restrictions → Bluetooth LE Privacy

**Options:**
- **ON:** Uses rotating random Bluetooth addresses (better privacy)
- **OFF:** Uses static Bluetooth address (simpler connections)

**Recommendation:** Try leaving it **OFF** first (simpler configuration). If you still have issues, try turning it **ON** and re-pairing.

---

### 5. Security & Restrictions (Verify)

**Path:** Settings → Security & restrictions

**Ensure these are ON:**
- ✅ `Allow all Bluetooth pair requests` = **ON**
- ✅ `Make passwords visible` = **ON** (optional, for convenience)

---

## 📊 Monitoring Your Fix

### Watch Bluetooth Activity in Real-Time

```bash
# Monitor connection state changes
adb logcat -s BluetoothHidHost:* | grep "Connection state"

# Watch specifically for your remote (replace MAC address)
adb logcat | grep "C8:D8:84:EF:33:E7"
```

### Check Connection Status

```bash
# View all bonded devices and their states
adb shell dumpsys bluetooth_manager | grep -A 20 "Bonded devices"

# Quick location mode check
adb shell settings get secure location_mode
# Should return: 3
```

### Overnight Monitoring

```bash
# Start logging before bed
adb logcat -s BluetoothHidHost:* > overnight_log.txt

# In the morning, search for disconnections
grep -i "disconnect" overnight_log.txt
# Should return: nothing (0 disconnections)
```

---

## ✅ Success Indicators

After applying the fix, you should see:

- ✅ Remote stays connected through sleep/wake cycles
- ✅ No more "remote disconnected" notifications
- ✅ Immediate response when pressing buttons after Shield wakes
- ✅ Connection survives multiple days without re-pairing
- ✅ Remote wakes Shield from sleep instantly

---

## 🧪 Testing Procedure

### Day 1: Initial Test
1. Apply the fix and reboot
2. Re-pair your remote
3. Use the Shield normally
4. Put it to sleep
5. Wake it with the remote - should respond instantly ✅

### Day 2-7: Stability Test
1. Let Shield sleep overnight
2. Wake with remote the next morning - should work immediately ✅
3. Use normally throughout the day
4. Monitor for any disconnections (should be zero)

**Success = 7 days with zero disconnections**

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Issue: Remote still disconnects after fix

**Check if location mode reverted:**
```bash
adb shell settings get secure location_mode
# Must return: 3
```

**If it returned to 0, re-apply the fix and verify UI location setting is ON:**
- Settings → Device Preferences → Location
- Ensure "Use Wi-Fi to estimate location" is **ON**

---

### Issue: Can't connect via ADB

**Verify Developer Options:**
1. Settings → Device Preferences → Developer Options
2. Ensure "Developer options" is **ON** (toggle at top)
3. Scroll to "Network debugging" - ensure it's **ON**

**Check connection:**
```bash
# Test basic connectivity
ping 192.168.2.12

# Try connecting
adb connect 192.168.2.12:5555

# If "unauthorized", check Shield screen for authorization dialog
```

---

### Issue: ADB says "device unauthorized"

**On Shield screen:**
1. Look for popup asking to authorize the computer
2. Select "Always allow from this computer"
3. Click OK
4. Try connecting again

---

### Issue: Fix applied but location_mode returns "null"

**This means the setting doesn't exist. Try:**
```bash
# Force-create the setting
adb shell settings put secure location_mode 3

# Verify it stuck
adb shell settings get secure location_mode
# Should return: 3

# Reboot
adb reboot
```

---

## 📝 Technical Details

### Location Mode Values

- `0` = Location OFF (breaks Bluetooth LE scanning) ❌
- `1` = Battery Saving (device sensors only)
- `2` = Device Only (GPS only)
- `3` = High Accuracy (GPS + Network) ✅ **RECOMMENDED**

### Why Location Affects Bluetooth

Android enforces this for privacy reasons:
- Bluetooth LE beacons can be used for location tracking
- Apps scanning for BLE devices could infer location
- Therefore, Android requires location permission + enabled location services for BLE scanning
- When location is disabled, BLE scanning becomes severely restricted (OPPORTUNISTIC mode)

### BLE Scan Throttle Modes

- `NEVER (1)` = Aggressive scanning ✅ (when location enabled)
- `LOW (2)` = Moderate scanning ✅ (when location enabled)
- `OPPORTUNISTIC (3)` = Passive only ❌ (when location disabled)

With `location_mode=0`, the system forces OPPORTUNISTIC mode, causing the Shield to miss HID keep-alive packets from remotes.

---

## 🎓 Key Lessons

1. **Never trust the UI!** The Settings app can show location as "enabled" while the system has it disabled (`location_mode=0`)

2. **ADB is essential for diagnosis.** This issue would be impossible to diagnose without direct system access

3. **Always reboot after changes.** The Bluetooth stack doesn't pick up configuration changes until reboot

4. **Re-pairing is required.** The old pairing was created with broken BLE scanning - it must be replaced

---

## 📋 Compatibility

### Tested On:
- Nvidia Shield TV (2019)
- Nvidia Shield TV Pro (2019)
- Nvidia Shield TV (2017)
- Android TV 11, 12

### Works With:
- TiVo Bluetooth remotes
- Generic Bluetooth HID remotes
- Bluetooth keyboards
- Bluetooth game controllers
- Any Bluetooth LE HID device

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Found an issue or have an improvement? PRs welcome!

**Areas for improvement:**
- Mac/Linux shell script version (currently Windows batch only)
- GUI application wrapper
- Additional diagnostic checks
- Support for more remote types

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - Feel free to use, modify, and share!

---

## 🙏 Credits

Solution discovered through systematic ADB diagnosis comparing working vs. non-working Shield configurations. Special thanks to the Android Debug Bridge and its maintainers.

---

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This tool modifies system settings on your Nvidia Shield. While the changes are safe and reversible, use at your own risk. Always ensure your Shield's firmware is up to date before making changes.

**Backup commands to save current settings:**
```bash
adb shell settings list secure > shield_settings_backup.txt
adb shell settings list global > shield_global_backup.txt
```

---

## 📞 Support

Having issues? Check the [Troubleshooting](#-troubleshooting) section above.

Still stuck? Open an issue with:
- Shield model and Android version
- Output of diagnostic script
- Steps you've already tried

---

## 🔗 Related Resources

- [Android Debug Bridge (ADB) Documentation](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb)
- [Nvidia Shield Support](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/shield/support/)
- [Android Bluetooth LE Overview](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/connectivity/bluetooth/ble-overview)

---

**Last Updated:** November 2025  
**Version:** 1.0.0

Commit message:

Clarify limitations of Bluetooth remote fix
Added a note regarding the limitations of the fix.

README.md, after:

# Nvidia Shield Bluetooth Remote Fix
NOTE: This is a fix for keeping bluetooth remotes paird for day to day use, it will not fix the loss of pairing after reboot.

## 🎯 Problem

Your TiVo remote (or other Bluetooth HID remotes) disconnects frequently from your Nvidia Shield TV, requiring constant re-pairing. The remote works fine initially but loses connection after the Shield sleeps or randomly during use.

## 🔍 Root Cause

The Shield's `location_mode` setting is disabled (set to `0`) at the system level, even though the UI may show location services as enabled. This configuration mismatch cripples Bluetooth LE scanning, causing remote disconnections.

**Why This Happens:**
- Android requires location services to be enabled for Bluetooth LE scanning (privacy requirement)
- When `location_mode=0`, BLE scanning becomes OPPORTUNISTIC (passive only)
- The Shield misses HID device "keep-alive" packets
- Result: Remote disconnects after sleep or randomly

## ✅ Solution

Enable location services at the system level using ADB commands, then re-pair your remote.

---

## 🚀 Quick Fix (Automated)

### Prerequisites

1. **Enable Developer Options on Shield:**
   - Settings → Device Preferences → About
   - Click "Build" 7 times until you see "You are now a developer"

2. **Enable Network Debugging:**
   - Settings → Device Preferences → Developer Options
   - Scroll down to "Network debugging"
   - Turn it ON

3. **Install ADB on your computer:**
   - **Windows:** Download [Platform Tools](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/platform-tools)
   - **Mac:** `brew install android-platform-tools`
   - **Linux:** `sudo apt install adb` or `sudo yum install android-tools`

4. **Find your Shield's IP address:**
   - Settings → Device Preferences → About → Status → IP address
   - Example: `192.168.2.12`

### Run the Automated Fix

1. Download `Shield_Bluetooth_Fix.bat` (Windows) or `Shield_Bluetooth_Fix.sh` (Mac/Linux)
2. Double-click to run it
3. Enter your Shield's IP address when prompted
4. Review diagnostic results
5. Type `Y` to apply fixes
6. Type `Y` to reboot
7. After reboot: **Re-pair your remote** (see below)

The script will:
- ✅ Check all Bluetooth-related settings
- ✅ Identify issues automatically
- ✅ Fix `location_mode` and related settings
- ✅ Generate a detailed diagnostic report
- ✅ Reboot the Shield

---

## 🔧 Manual Fix (Step-by-Step)

If you prefer to fix it manually or want to understand what's happening:

### Step 1: Connect via ADB

```bash
# Connect to your Shield (replace with your IP)
adb connect 192.168.2.12:5555
```

### Step 2: Check Current Settings

```bash
# Check location mode (should return 0 if broken)
adb shell settings get secure location_mode

# Check location providers
adb shell settings get secure location_providers_allowed

# Check BLE scan status
adb shell settings get global ble_scan_always_enabled
```

**Problem indicators:**
- `location_mode` returns `0` (disabled) ❌
- `location_providers_allowed` is empty or returns `null`

### Step 3: Apply the Fix

```bash
# Enable location services (HIGH ACCURACY mode)
adb shell settings put secure location_mode 3

# Enable location providers
adb shell settings put secure location_providers_allowed +network,+gps

# Ensure BLE scanning is enabled
adb shell settings put global ble_scan_always_enabled 1
```

### Step 4: Verify the Fix

```bash
# Should now return 3
adb shell settings get secure location_mode

# Should show network and gps
adb shell settings get secure location_providers_allowed
```

### Step 5: Reboot the Shield

**CRITICAL:** The Shield must reboot for the Bluetooth stack to pick up the new settings.

```bash
adb reboot
```

Or manually: Settings → Device Preferences → About → Restart

---

## 🔄 Re-Pair Your Remote (REQUIRED)

After rebooting, you **must** re-pair your remote with a fresh connection:

1. **Navigate to:** Settings → Remotes & Accessories
2. **Find your remote** (may show as "TiVo Remote", "Bluetooth HID", or the device name)
3. **Select it** and choose **Forget** or **Unpair**
4. **Put remote in pairing mode:**
   - TiVo Remote: Hold `Home` + `Back` buttons until LED flashes
   - Other remotes: Consult your remote's manual
5. **On Shield:** Select **Add accessory**
6. **Select your remote** when it appears
7. **Complete pairing**

---

## 🎛️ Optional UI Tweaks for Better Stability

While the ADB fix addresses the root cause, these optional UI changes may improve stability:

### 1. Processor Mode (Recommended)

**Path:** Settings → Device Preferences → System → Processor mode

**Change to:** `Optimized`

**Why:** Max Performance mode can cause aggressive power management conflicts with Bluetooth scanning.

---

### 2. USB Mode (Optional)

**Path:** Settings → Device Preferences → Developer options → USB mode

**Change to:** `Auto (Recommended)`

**Why:** Compatibility mode may affect power distribution to Bluetooth radio.

---

### 3. USB Port Power (Optional)

**Path:** Settings → Device Preferences → System → USB Port Power

**Change both ports to:** `Off During Sleep`

**Why:** Reduces power draw during sleep, which may affect Bluetooth radio behavior.

---

### 4. Bluetooth LE Privacy (Optional)

**Path:** Settings → Security & restrictions → Bluetooth LE Privacy

**Options:**
- **ON:** Uses rotating random Bluetooth addresses (better privacy)
- **OFF:** Uses static Bluetooth address (simpler connections)

**Recommendation:** Try leaving it **OFF** first (simpler configuration). If you still have issues, try turning it **ON** and re-pairing.

---

### 5. Security & Restrictions (Verify)

**Path:** Settings → Security & restrictions

**Ensure these are ON:**
- ✅ `Allow all Bluetooth pair requests` = **ON**
- ✅ `Make passwords visible` = **ON** (optional, for convenience)

---

## 📊 Monitoring Your Fix

### Watch Bluetooth Activity in Real-Time

```bash
# Monitor connection state changes
adb logcat -s BluetoothHidHost:* | grep "Connection state"

# Watch specifically for your remote (replace MAC address)
adb logcat | grep "C8:D8:84:EF:33:E7"
```

### Check Connection Status

```bash
# View all bonded devices and their states
adb shell dumpsys bluetooth_manager | grep -A 20 "Bonded devices"

# Quick location mode check
adb shell settings get secure location_mode
# Should return: 3
```

### Overnight Monitoring

```bash
# Start logging before bed
adb logcat -s BluetoothHidHost:* > overnight_log.txt

# In the morning, search for disconnections
grep -i "disconnect" overnight_log.txt
# Should return: nothing (0 disconnections)
```

---

## ✅ Success Indicators

After applying the fix, you should see:

- ✅ Remote stays connected through sleep/wake cycles
- ✅ No more "remote disconnected" notifications
- ✅ Immediate response when pressing buttons after Shield wakes
- ✅ Connection survives multiple days without re-pairing
- ✅ Remote wakes Shield from sleep instantly

---

## 🧪 Testing Procedure

### Day 1: Initial Test
1. Apply the fix and reboot
2. Re-pair your remote
3. Use the Shield normally
4. Put it to sleep
5. Wake it with the remote - should respond instantly ✅

### Day 2-7: Stability Test
1. Let Shield sleep overnight
2. Wake with remote the next morning - should work immediately ✅
3. Use normally throughout the day
4. Monitor for any disconnections (should be zero)

**Success = 7 days with zero disconnections**

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Issue: Remote still disconnects after fix

**Check if location mode reverted:**
```bash
adb shell settings get secure location_mode
# Must return: 3
```

**If it returned to 0, re-apply the fix and verify UI location setting is ON:**
- Settings → Device Preferences → Location
- Ensure "Use Wi-Fi to estimate location" is **ON**

---

### Issue: Can't connect via ADB

**Verify Developer Options:**
1. Settings → Device Preferences → Developer Options
2. Ensure "Developer options" is **ON** (toggle at top)
3. Scroll to "Network debugging" - ensure it's **ON**

**Check connection:**
```bash
# Test basic connectivity
ping 192.168.2.12

# Try connecting
adb connect 192.168.2.12:5555

# If "unauthorized", check Shield screen for authorization dialog
```

---

### Issue: ADB says "device unauthorized"

**On Shield screen:**
1. Look for popup asking to authorize the computer
2. Select "Always allow from this computer"
3. Click OK
4. Try connecting again

---

### Issue: Fix applied but location_mode returns "null"

**This means the setting doesn't exist. Try:**
```bash
# Force-create the setting
adb shell settings put secure location_mode 3

# Verify it stuck
adb shell settings get secure location_mode
# Should return: 3

# Reboot
adb reboot
```

---

## 📝 Technical Details

### Location Mode Values

- `0` = Location OFF (breaks Bluetooth LE scanning) ❌
- `1` = Battery Saving (device sensors only)
- `2` = Device Only (GPS only)
- `3` = High Accuracy (GPS + Network) ✅ **RECOMMENDED**

### Why Location Affects Bluetooth

Android enforces this for privacy reasons:
- Bluetooth LE beacons can be used for location tracking
- Apps scanning for BLE devices could infer location
- Therefore, Android requires location permission + enabled location services for BLE scanning
- When location is disabled, BLE scanning becomes severely restricted (OPPORTUNISTIC mode)

### BLE Scan Throttle Modes

- `NEVER (1)` = Aggressive scanning ✅ (when location enabled)
- `LOW (2)` = Moderate scanning ✅ (when location enabled)
- `OPPORTUNISTIC (3)` = Passive only ❌ (when location disabled)

With `location_mode=0`, the system forces OPPORTUNISTIC mode, causing the Shield to miss HID keep-alive packets from remotes.

---

## 🎓 Key Lessons

1. **Never trust the UI!** The Settings app can show location as "enabled" while the system has it disabled (`location_mode=0`)

2. **ADB is essential for diagnosis.** This issue would be impossible to diagnose without direct system access

3. **Always reboot after changes.** The Bluetooth stack doesn't pick up configuration changes until reboot

4. **Re-pairing is required.** The old pairing was created with broken BLE scanning - it must be replaced

---

## 📋 Compatibility

### Tested On:
- Nvidia Shield TV (2019)
- Nvidia Shield TV Pro (2019)
- Nvidia Shield TV (2017)
- Android TV 11, 12

### Works With:
- TiVo Bluetooth remotes
- Generic Bluetooth HID remotes
- Bluetooth keyboards
- Bluetooth game controllers
- Any Bluetooth LE HID device

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Found an issue or have an improvement? PRs welcome!

**Areas for improvement:**
- Mac/Linux shell script version (currently Windows batch only)
- GUI application wrapper
- Additional diagnostic checks
- Support for more remote types

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - Feel free to use, modify, and share!

---

## 🙏 Credits

Solution discovered through systematic ADB diagnosis comparing working vs. non-working Shield configurations. Special thanks to the Android Debug Bridge and its maintainers.

---

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This tool modifies system settings on your Nvidia Shield. While the changes are safe and reversible, use at your own risk. Always ensure your Shield's firmware is up to date before making changes.

**Backup commands to save current settings:**
```bash
adb shell settings list secure > shield_settings_backup.txt
adb shell settings list global > shield_global_backup.txt
```

---

## 📞 Support

Having issues? Check the [Troubleshooting](#-troubleshooting) section above.

Still stuck? Open an issue with:
- Shield model and Android version
- Output of diagnostic script
- Steps you've already tried

---

## 🔗 Related Resources

- [Android Debug Bridge (ADB) Documentation](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb)
- [Nvidia Shield Support](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/shield/support/)
- [Android Bluetooth LE Overview](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/connectivity/bluetooth/ble-overview)

---

**Last Updated:** November 2025  
**Version:** 1.0.0
